hey what's going on guys Nick here and
for those of you that don't know
incandescent bulbs have recently paved
the way for some rapidly evolving
lighting technologies what all started
with heating filaments has eventually
evolved into passing current through
ionized gas like we see in fluorescence
and most recently using semiconductors
and diodes and LEDs however a team of
scientists at ASU has claimed to create
a technology that marks even the most
recent breakthroughs in the lighting
industry irrelevant let's check it out
the team at ASU has created a laser that
produces pure white light but claims to
be brighter and more accurate than even
the best LEDs on the market while
technically the laser doesn't produce
white light from the get-go it employs
clever use of nanomaterials to combine
color from three different beams of
light lasers essentially work by
concentrating light over and over again
until it emerges into one very powerful
beam it shoots trillions of photons or
light particles through a narrow path of
entry that's between two mirrors each
photon will bounce around and off the
sides exciting one another to release
light as well this process goes on
indefinitely until you open up a very
small hole at the end we're an extremely
concentrated and coherent shaft of light
blast through sometimes capable of
shooting miles into the sky or tearing
metal as if or paper they've also been
an incredibly sought-after R&D interest
for lighting companies as they're
incredibly bright powerful and efficient
that being said the great thing about
this research is that a functional
prototype exists that can produce enough
light that's visible to the human eye
and now for one is a huge step in the
right direction as you may expect just
like the pixels on your computer the
scientists have to combine the red green
and blue color spectrums in just the
right amount in order to produce the
white light because of that necessity as
if that wasn't already hard enough a
semiconductor laser had to be developed
that could access any part of the color
spectrum at once that being said it was
a difficult process that eventually
found fruition with just the right
nanowire alloy the lasers largest
selling point is that it can compete and
oftentimes outperform even the best LEDs
it has a wider color range and claims to
be more accurate and the scientists say
that that's just the beginning however
before we get our hopes up and start
imagining a future of super bright and
super cheap lighting the technology
needs to be refined its current power
sources that of a conventional laser and
not a battery which is what's required
if you want to see that stuff in your
house that being said I think we should
give them some time because this is an
awesome technology and you know I'm
gonna keep you guys updated and as
always thanks for watching and I'll see
you guys next time